The process of managing human capital
should start is that it is also
by pure common sense to identify
what you want or what you need
and then you will have to go
out to look for it, manage
it, develop it, etc.
But of course, if we haven’t done
the first step well, what do we need?
I understand that to the
company’s strategic goals,
etc.
For all the rest, it is as if in
marketing we have not defined our
target audience well, everything
else we do is wrong.
So what I would like to analyze
is how the traditional process
is and what you propose
for the identification of needs,
that is, what we are going
to look for.
Usually what is done in companies
traditionally, this management
do it the following way.
You are generated a vacancy in the
organization either because someone
has left the company or because
a new position has been created.
Depending on that, you have to identify
well what you are going to go out to look for.
And then that means doing what we call
the job description, which is basically
the name of the position, the position
he occupies in the organization,
in what department he is, the type
of level of responsibilities and functions
that this person will finish,
the goal and mission of that
position and the relationships that
these people will talk about, that
is, whether he will carry teams,
whether he will have a very direct
relationship with the commercial
department or with the
financial or with external
suppliers and others.
Once you clearly do that exercise
of reflection, of identifying
what you are looking for, logically
you will be much more agile
at finding it.
In addition, it will help you look
better because you have clear what
you want, it is also common sense
and it will help you, if you have done
the exercise, to when you are with
the candidates, transmit it
well because sometimes it happens
that in interviews suddenly
it seems that you do not know or
explain what you are going to
do and the other person generates sincerity.
Does it allow you to be much
more efficient when communicating
to candidates presenting so
that they also buy it or not?
Of course, that is it.
Effectively be transparent and explain
point by point everything your
involvement or your work will
involve.
How do you propose it?
What is your approach?
Well, we who are an
adocratic organization,
we have an adocratic culture,
we propose to focus
more on people, which
each of us provides
in a differential way.
I like to explain it with a formula
I have defined, which is world-
renowned, but for me what
I seek is talent.
So what we need to do is
identify what is talent for us.
In this case, for my company,
talent is a set of knowledge
and skills and attitude.
What are knowledge?
Knowledge is what a person
needs to know to
perform their job.
That is, for example, if I’m looking
for a programmer, I need someone
who logically has programming
studies or experience
in programming.
What are the skills?
This is a skill and one person
will have to develop in
their workplace.
That is, if I am looking
for a commercial, he must have
very powerful negotiation and
communication skills.
That is the skills.
Then there is the attitude.
The attitude of people, each
person has an attitude toward
life, but we, for example, who
are an adocratic culture, look
for people who have an innovative,
flexible attitude, who advance
changes, who are proactive,
who have a continuous learning
ability that helps us to
overcome challenges in
an agile way.
This is what we call an
adocratic attitude toward
life and work.
So, we are what we are looking for.
This is a very interesting topic because
all entrepreneurs, when we want
to incorporate or replace people,
we always see ourselves in the
dilemmas.
I would explain it this way.
You often don’t know if
we incorporate someone with 10
years of experience or two, but
who has the high potential.
What do you buy today, talent?
What is the long term or longer
term?
What am I looking for?
That is something that is permanent.
Anyone who has hired people is sure
that this happens to them.
Especially in organizations like
ours or like yours, which are adocratic,
flexible, innovative organizations
in which you are not replacing
one peer for another.
So what you said is that with
your talent formula equal to knowledge
more skills, knowledge and
skills are a little more associated
with that particular
position.
That is.
The difference is attitude.
It is different, but it is the
same for the whole organization.
This is the attitude in the Power
Envie team or the attitude in
Pernod Ricard’s employees.
All people should have the
same attitude.
These are the values of your company,
which you have to be very clear
about.
What am I looking for here?
We, for example, look for people
who are very proactive in the A-attitude.
We are looking for people who
are micro-entrepreneurs, which we always say.
actually is.
I think that no matter
the traditional way to
make a job description, here
what you have to have very clear
is what is for us attitude.
Because knowledge and skills
is probably something more obvious.
If you are going to dedicate yourself to
programming or selling or making a
marketing plan is something more obvious,
that is not difficult, it does not require
much time.
But, however, the attitude, as it
is linked to the culture of your
company, is very important that you
understand by attitude of Power MBA
or us at Pernod Ricard Spain.
We have very clear that this
attitude must be innovative,
startup, to go a step forward,
continuous learning,
overcoming and
also very experiential.
We always say that we
don’t sell liquors, we
sell experiences.
We need our employees to be
ambassadors of this attitude.
We will give concrete advice
to Power MBA students, who
in many cases will face
or face the challenge
of hiring or managing teams.
One concrete advice is that everything
is born of attitude.
You have to identify what the values
of your company, your team and
everything starts there.
That is.
That is what will make the difference.
You can have a fabulous programmer,
but if his attitude is of the fallen
arms, more than the same, of
not leaving comfort missions,
because maybe he is not the person
you want, because maybe he
has the knowledge of a Steve
Jobs, but probably he has
the attitude of a loser.
And maybe that’s not what you
want, because when facing
the challenges of Power MBA or any
other company, the attitude is...
That’s why I love to highlight
that you add knowledge and
skills, but you multiply it by
attitude, because it’s what
will exponentially differentiate
your people and your company.
So if you find someone who is excellent
in attitude and who shares your
values, even though knowledge,
more skills, sume a little, as
what you are really weighing,
is multiplying is attitude,
you have to incorporate
it into the team and eventually
you will develop it.
actually is.
In fact, today’s and future
leaders are leaders who help
their teams develop
knowledge and skills, but
the attitude will be of
course.
Just for that.